Intro
Welcome to this E-learning module concerning the A350_ATA 24 VFG 1A and 2A feeders arcing at terminal block

SubtitleIntro
Welcome to this E-learning module concerning the A350_ATA 24VFG 1A & 2A feeders arcing at terminal block


18_S01_rev00
A350 fleet has experienced several cases of arcing between Variable Frequency Generator (VFG) AC phases on VFG 1A (or 2A) terminal block. The occurrence of arcing on feeders lead to short circuits with the following consequences:​
- VFG channel trip ​
- Ecam Warning ELEC GEN 1A(or 2A) FAULT displayed.​
- Relevant Failure Message associated to Differential Protection recorded by the Central Maintenance System (CMS).​
When this event occurs, the electrical network is normally reconfigured and the Aircraft can be dispatched under MEL with one VFG inoperative.​
Operators have not reported Operational Interruptions but this issue can lead to significant maintenance burden.


18_Subtitle_S01_rev00
A350 fleet has experienced several cases of arcing between Variable Frequency Generator (VFG) AC phases on VFG 1A (or 2A) terminal block. The occurrence of arcing on feeders lead to short circuits with the following consequences:​
- VFG channel trip ​
- Ecam Warning ELEC GEN 1A(or 2A) FAULT displayed.​
- Relevant Failure Message associated to Differential Protection recorded by the Central Maintenance System (CMS).​
When this event occurs, the electrical network is normally reconfigured and the Aircraft can be dispatched under MEL with one VFG inoperative.​
Operators have not reported Operational Interruptions but this issue can lead to significant maintenance burden.


18_S02_rev00
The AIRBUS Investigation allows to determine that all event reported during winter period. And all affected VFG position are 1A or 2A. The COLLINS Material Lab found foreign contamination of Chlorine and Potassium (components of de-icing fluid) at the Terminal Block arcing area. It was then concluded that VFG electrical Arcs are caused by the presence of deposits of Chlorine and Potassium around terminal block & feeders, leading to short circuit between feeder phases.

18_Subtitle_S02_rev00
The AIRBUS Investigation allows to determine that all event reported during winter period. And all affected VFG position are 1A or 2A. The COLLINS Material Lab found foreign contamination of Chlorine and Potassium (components of de-icing fluid) at the Terminal Block arcing area.
- It was then concluded that VFG electrical Arcs are caused by the presence of deposits of Chlorine and Potassium around terminal block & feeders, leading to short circuit between feeder phases.

18_S03_rev00
The MMEL 24  22  02A can be applied to dispatch the aircraft.


18_Subtitle_S03_rev00
The MMEL 24-22-02A can be applied to dispatch the aircraft.

18_S04_rev00
The maintenance recommrndations are:​ To do a replacement of the VFG and feeders. To do a specific inspection and cleaning (procedures are available by TA). ​Follow the temporary procedure of RTV application on VFG feeder lugs to avoid arcing is available through a dedicated TA.  The following maintenance procedure relatad to removal and installation of the VFGs and feeder are available on A350 Airnav.

18_Subtitle_S04_rev00
The maintenance recommendations are:​

To do a replacement of the VFG and feeders ​

To do a specific inspection and cleaning (procedures are available by TA). ​

Follow the temporary procedure of RTV application on VFG feeder lugs to avoid arcing is available through a dedicated TA.​

The following maintenance procedure relatad to removal and installation of the VFGs and FEEDER are available on A350 Airn@v.


18_S05_rev00
The Permanent Solution proposed is: To install a device in front of the VFG terminal block to prevent any potential fluid to reach the VFG terminal block. This device consists in a clamp block, deflector shield and attaching parts. Final fix is available through VSB TRENT XWB 24-K462.

18_Subtitle_S05_rev00
The Permanent Solution proposed is: To install a device in front of the VFG terminal block to prevent any potential fluid to reach the VFG terminal block. 
This device consists in a clamp block, deflector shield and attaching parts.
Final fix is available through VSB TRENT XWB 24-K462.

18_S06_rev00
The final fix is proposed through the VSB trent XWB 24-K462.

18_Subtitle_S06_rev00
The final fix is proposed through the VSB TRENT XWB 24-K462.

