Intro_rev00
Welcome to this E-learning module concerning ATA 46-12  OSFC inoperative:  "osf hard disk recovery – disk reformat/disk replacement" 

S10_rev00
At OSFC (Open world Server Function Cabinet) start up, it has been reported cases of OSFC failure. 
These failures are impacted the OSF Hard Disk called the ODSM (Open world Data Storage Module).
In that case some failure effects linked to OSFC ODSMs are displayed on the OMT (On Board Maintenance Terminal).
The messages, displayed on the OMT, require an OSFC Disk Reformat or a Disk Replacement.

S10b_rev00
In these situations, the OSFC is inoperative. The operational impacts are:​ 
Loss of import, export functions. 
Loss of print functions. 
Loss of IPCOM and cabin wireless capability.
No avionics parameter for EFB and IFE.
No cross notification between EFB and AOC.
No access to Cabin Documentation in cabin on the FAP.
Also, access to AirN@v and Aircraft PFR (Post Flight Report) is not possible.

S10C_rev00
IF OSFC is inoperative, Aircraft can be dispatched under MEL.
1) One or several maintenance applications may be lost: Aircraft PFR, AirN@v, Open World maintenance functions 
2) One or several cabin applications may be lost:  Cabin Crew mail, Cabin documentation, Cabin wireless manager.
According to airline's policy, alternate procedures may be developed for the unavailability of the affected application.
3) Regarding the printer, alternate procedures must be established and used due to the unavailability.

S20A_rev01
When OSFC is inoperative, by selecting the ASF Backup Menu, it is possible to use the following maintenance functions that are hosted in the ASFC:
ACMS (Aircraft Condition Monitoring System). 
CMS (Centralized Maintenance System).
DLCS (Data Loading and Configuration System).
PDMMF (Power Distribution Monitoring and Maintenance Function).



S30A_rev00
By selecting the CMS Backup Menu, it is possible to access the Avionics PFR and to perform System Test and Scanning of most Aircraft systems.
Also (not shown on the slide) it is possible to select the DLCS (Data Loading and Configuration System) function. This allows to reload Field Loadable Software in most of the avionics computers from the Aircraft Main reference Repository.

S40_rev02
OSFC RESTORE PROCEDURE:
In case of “DISK REPLACEMENT” message at OSFC start up, it is requested to perform the full OSFC Restore procedure.
This procedure can be split in 3 steps. The full procedure can last up to 10 hours.
ODSMs replacement procedure. The failed ODSMs are indicated on the OMT.
ODSM reformat procedure.
OSFC Core software and Field Loadable software reload procedures.
In case of “DISK REFORMAT” message at OSFC start up, only steps 2 and 3 are necessary. ODSM replacement can be required in some cases.
DO NOT swap ODSMs inside the cabinet or rob ODSM from another A/C.
AIRBUS recommends preparing USB key for each FSA-NG (OIS) standard in service in the Airline. This will allow Airline to save valuable preparation time in case OSFC needs to be reloaded. 

S40A_rev00
To limit the risk of OSFC failure due to several ODSM failures and to save maintenance time, it is recommended to replace a single faulty ODSM as soon as possible.
In case of a single faulty ODSM, the OSFC remains fully operative.
Also, in case of a single faulty ODSM, the failure is associated with a Dispatch Message, a Maintenance message in the PFR and an Active ECAM Alert. 

S40B_rev00
Airbus recommends preparing USB keys for each OSFC standard in service in the Airline. This will allow Airline to save valuable preparation time in case OSFC software needs to be reloaded. 

S50A_Audio
Some solutions will rely on replacement of the current ODSM design. 
A new ODSM has been selected but it requires a redesign to meet the ODSM specification.
Target date for this solution availability is end 2020.
Others potential root causes are being analysed.
Some dedicated TFUs (Technical Follow Up) and ISIs (In Service Information) are regularly updated in order to provide the last news on this subject. 

S60_Audio
It is possible to find more information about the OSFC inoperative issue in the following documents.

